adaptive syscall selection blog post (#1019)
falcosecurity/falco-website: content/en/blog/adaptive-syscalls-selection/index.md

<br><a target="_blank" href="images/adaptive-syscalls-selection-01.png">
  <img style="border: 2px solid #00b4c8" 
       alt="Examples of Falco internal mapping of Syscalls"
       src="images/adaptive-syscalls-selection-01.png">
  </img>
</a><br><br>

- `monitoring`/`tracing`: Refers to passively observing and analyzing events within the Linux kernel by hooking into tracepoints and subsequently serving information up as structured Falco alerts. Falco's monitoring process does not influence or modify any syscalls.

- `processing`/`parsing`: Extracting meaningful information from the events captured by Falco and converting them into a structured format. We extract data fields in the kernel and perform the necessary parsing in userspace.

> - `filtering`: Refers to stopping the processing / parsing or ignoring events within Falco userspace. No modifications are made to the kernel during this process.

Reviewer: remove `within Falco userspace`

- `rules matching`: Refers to evaluating an event in userspace against the Abstract Syntax Tree (AST) generated from a Falco rule.

## Background

Before the 0.35.0 release, Falco would monitor a predefined set of commonly used syscalls in its kernel driver for threat detection, regardless of the specific rules being applied. However, this approach had limitations as it would monitor a large number of syscalls. In certain user configurations, Falco would needlessly monitor syscalls not relevant to the loaded rules, consuming system resources without effectively contributing to the intended purpose of threat detection.

> You may ask yourself why Falco has been tracing a predetermined set of commonly used syscalls until now. Falco relies on a set of syscalls to establish and maintain its state in userspace. For example, when a new process is spawned or a network connection is created, multiple syscalls are involved. Additionally, Falco maintains a process cache table in userspace, which requires tracking certain syscalls to ensure the accuracy and currency of the cache table. The process table is crucial for retrieving real-time process tree lineages and other functions. 

Reviewer: Here change `tracing` to `monitoring`.

Initially, tracing a predefined set of syscalls provided a solid foundation for Falco's functionality. However, with the growing computational workload on servers and systems, it became necessary to adopt a new and more efficient approach to optimize performance.

> ## New Configuration Options
> 
> Falco continues to operate as usual, adhering to its standard behavior. Starting with Falco version 0.35.0, the changes primarily impact the handling of syscall events and the selection of specific syscalls to be monitored and analyzed during live captures.
> 
> The behavior of Falco will vary depending on the event source, with changes only affecting live syscall events:
> 
> - **non syscall event source**: Falco behaves as usual, where for example container events are retrieved and processed from the container runtime, just like before.
> - **syscall event source**:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Adaptive Syscall Selection

Adaptive syscall selection is a new feature that adds the ability to select which syscalls to monitor. This empowers users with granular control, optimizing system performance by reducing CPU load through selective syscall monitoring. Adaptive syscall selection was added to Falco on version 0.35, and, by default, it doesn't change Falco behavior from a high-level view. In other words, by default, Falco continues to operate as usual.

The changes primarily impact the handling of syscall events and the selection of specific syscalls to be monitored and analyzed. The current changes only affect live syscall events. The sycall selection is now done as follows:
```

>   1. Falco determines a base set of syscalls to monitor. This can be either the default minimum set known as the "sinsp state set" (automatically determined by the underlying libsinsp library) to maintain state consistency and stability, or a customized set of syscalls defined by the user via the new `base_syscalls` configuration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  1. Falco determines a base set of syscalls to monitor. This can be either the default minimum set known as the "sinsp state set" (automatically determined by the underlying libsinsp library to maintain state consistency and stability), or a customized set of syscalls defined by the user via the new `base_syscalls` configuration (discussed later).
```

  3. If the `-A` flag is not enabled, performance-heavy syscalls, such as I/O-intensive syscalls, are excluded from the set of syscalls, and a warning is shown to the user.
  4. Falco configures the kernel driver with the chosen set of syscalls and only monitors syscalls that match the selected syscalls on the kernel side.

{{% pageinfo color="warning" %}}

Adaptive syscall selection does not apply to capture files and only affects the behavior of live capture.

{{% /pageinfo %}}

<br><a target="_blank" href="images/adaptive-syscalls-selection-02.png">
  <img style="border: 2px solid #00b4c8" 
       alt="Examples of automatic Syscalls inclusion/exclussion"
       src="images/adaptive-syscalls-selection-02.png">
  </img>
</a><br><br>
        
 
<br><a target="_blank" href="images/adaptive-syscalls-selection-03.png">
  <img style="border: 2px solid #00b4c8" 
       alt="Mapping of observed Syscalls by the Falco Driver"
       src="images/adaptive-syscalls-selection-03.png">
  </img>
</a><br><br>       

> In detail, the `base_syscalls` section provides two configuration options:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## New Configuration Options

As discussed above, Falco 0.35 allows users to define a customized base set of syscalls to monitor. This is done via the `base_syscalls` setting, which provides two configuration options:
```

Tue May 30 14:01:27 2023: The chosen syscall buffer dimension is: 8388608 bytes (8 MBs)
Tue May 30 14:01:27 2023: Skipping starting webserver in dry-run
Tue May 30 14:01:27 2023: Skipping event processing in dry-run
Tue May 30 14:01:27 2023: Skipping unregistering signal handlers in dry-run
Tue May 30 14:01:27 2023: Skipping stopping webserver in dry-run

```

## Refactors Involved

This section provides an overview of the underlying refactors that have enabled the implementation of the innovative adaptive syscall selection mechanisms in Falco.

### Falco's ppm sc API

- A new event set class has been introduced to support efficient set operations natively in the `ppm sc API` in Falco's `libs`. 

- Additional refinements in the `ppm sc API`  have resulted in robust mechanisms to accurately map syscall and other event strings from the loaded Falco rules to the `PPM_SC_*` or `PPME_*` enumerations.\
  This enhancement was essential to overcome the challenges inherited from previous mapping processes and improve the efficiency and structure of event parsing.

> - The initial separate enumeration for kernel tracepoints has been merged with the `PPM_SC_*` codes (`sc` now reflecting `scap codes` instead of `syscall codes` only), resulting in a single enumeration.\

Author: That's MarkDown formatting to split the content for better readability. Do you really want it as a single paragraph?

> - The initial separate enumeration for kernel tracepoints has been merged with the `PPM_SC_*` codes (`sc` now reflecting `scap codes` instead of `syscall codes` only), resulting in a single enumeration.\

Reviewer: on the test website it was typed out, what went wrong here?
